Project Details
Description:
FarmCare optimizes farm tasks. The main aim of all farmers is to make their business profitable and efficient. It takes considerable effort to control and maintain animals’ health, the milking process, food and medicine stock and animal’s events such as estrus period, pregnancies, treatments and births, so this system will help the farmers in managing these tasks. The app will provide the reports after tracking these events. FarmCare allows the farmers to easily control and timely manage all the aspects of farm such as livestock, milk production and budget of the farm properly, market rates of food and suppliers of the food and medicine, and consult animals doctor to recommend medicine. App will provide facility to manage farm inventory.
Suppliers will provide their stock details and rates of food and medicine which will be accessible to the farmers and they can use these details to buy food products and medicine from the supplier. It will increase the selling rate of the supplier with minimum effort. Rates of different suppliers will be shown and farmers can buy according to their choice on chat. Market rates predictions will be shown in app and farmers can make decisions of stock based on the predictions.
Doctors will check the animal’s condition and recommend medicines and treatments. Reports of
expenses, milk production and consumption, stock, animal’s events will be generated.

Technology Stack:
Tools:  Visual Studio Code , Azure, Firebase
Technologies: React native , Cloud FireStore , Google Map API , Real-Time Communication/Chat

Deployment or Distribution Strategy:
FarmCare will be deployed on the Google Play Store because it is an android application.
Distribution tool will be Google Play Console to upload, manage and publish this application for users. It provides a wide range of configuration and testing features to provide users with suitable and best applications.

Architecture:
In this project, the architecture followed is Model View View-Model (MVVM) which is a software architecture widely used in the development of mobile applications. 



Components:
1:  User Profile
This module will manage the profile creation, login and authentication of user’s profile. Users can edit their profile information and profile picture anytime.
2:  Supplier Chain 
•	Suppliers will be of two types such as Food Supplier and Medicine Supplier.
•	Food supplier will be responsible for the food stock and will add the food stock information on app such as product name, quantity, price.
•	Medicine Supplier will add the medicine products and prices in stock information so that farmers and doctor can buy them. 
•	Supplier can take orders of products from the farmer and doctor.
•	Order information will be received by the supplier and after payment, order confirmation message will be sent to the buyer on Mobile No.
•	Different suppliers sell products at different rates so their rates along with the products will be displayed and then farmer and doctor can select from whom they want to buy.
3:  Farm Care
The purpose of this module is to maintain the services performed by the farmer. Services managed will be:
•	Animals Information: Farmer can add, delete and update the animal. Animal information such as breed, condition (sick, pregnant, Dry, milking), gender, joining date, date of birth etc. will be stored.
•	Animal Events: The record of events such as estrus period, pregnancies, treatments and births will be stored and tracked and proper reports will be generated for these events within specified time period. Events will be added, removed and updated by the farmer.
•	Inventory: Food and medicines will be stored and managed by the farmer. Farmer is responsible for the food and medicines of all animals and he has to make sure that everything is available at the time. Food and medicine records will be added, updated and removed.
•	Farmer can buy food and medicine products from the supplier through app.
•	Farmer can locate the suppliers in his area which are registered with app.
•	Farm Resources/Workers: Farms have many workers working for different purposes. Some are responsible for the stock and some are responsible for the animal care and some for the delivery of the milk to stores so their personal information and payments record will be stored and managed. Workers will be added, removed and updated by the farmer.
•	Income and Expenses: Farmer is responsible to keep track of all the expenses of the farm and income. Weekly and Monthly reports will be generated by app and farmer can download these reports.
•	Milk Production: Daily milk production and consumption record will be managed and the stores where milk is delivered will also be the stored for income reports purpose. Milk record will be added, removed and updated by the farmer.
•	View Reports: 4 Different types of reports will be generated by the system and farmers can view them such as income and expenses, milk record, animal events report, animal’s information report.
4:  Market Trends
•	This module is responsible for the market rates of the food. 
•	Food rates entered by the supplier in the database will be fetched and past rates will be collected from the suppliers and will be used to predict the seasonal rates of the food by applying using machine learning’s algorithm.
•	The whole year will be divided into four seasons and past seasons rates will be collected and through data analysis technique future rates will be predicted and displayed. 
•	These rates will be accessible to the farmers and they can make decision whether to buy these products in this season or not based on the prediction. 

6:  Communication
System will provide the facility to farmer, doctor and supplier to communicate with each other  via text message, video/audio call and pictures.
7:  Payment Gateway
•	System will provide the facility to pay through app using Jazz Cash and master Card.
•	System will generate an order confirmation message and it will be sent to the buyer.
8:  Location Tracking
•	Suppliers will provide their location so the farmers and doctors locate them and communicate with them.
•	Doctors will provide their location so the farmers can locate nearby doctors and contact them in need.
•	Farmers will provide their location so doctors can track them if they need to go to farm to examine the animals.
9:  Reports
•	System will generate 4 different types of reports such as 
	Income and Expenses report: It will include all the food, medicines, treatments and workers expenses.
	Animal’s Events Report: It will include events reports such as pregnancies, abortions, treatments, castrations etc.
	Milk Production: It will include information about the daily milk production and consumption.
	Animals Information Report: It will include information about animals such as how many types of animals and how much they are at the farm.

How different components are communicating to each other? Which protocols they are using to communicate?
Components are passing data between each other through navigation. State is passed in the navigation and next module/screen access that data and perform required actions.
React Native Screen (Views) send the call to firebase to send and get data from the collections and after successful retrieval of data, data is displayed to the user.

Target Users:
Target users are farm owners. They will use this to manage farm tasks.
Animal food and medicine suppliers will use this application to manage and sell their stock and manage orders received through application.
Veterinarians will use this system to buy medicines and to check animal through video call or pictures and handle diseases of the patients.
